# Bachelor-Thesis - Data Delivery Optimization inMulti-Robot Network Patrolling

## Abstract 
  The subject of this thesis is the domain of Multi-Robot Patrolling (MRP). Thisthesis tackles a specific problem in the MRP called Data Delivery Optimization inMulti-Robot Network Patrolling. The MRP is a new research field with high poten-tial for massive discoveries.The thesis is structured in four chapters.  In the first chapter some of the mainconcepts about multi-robot patrolling and reinforcement learning are introduced,while also reviewing the current literature about MRP. In the second chapter a novelapproach to the Data Delivery Optimization problem, based the on a Dynamic Net-work Flows algorithm, is discussed, calledDynFloR. The following chapter aims toprove that a reinforcement learning approach to the problem is highly feasible, byintroducing and testing a Q-learning model. The last chapter presents the softwaresolution which solves the Data Delivery Optimization problem, providing details ofthe software development methodology used and implementation details.The main elements of originality of this thesis consist in two new approachesto the problem, one based on Dynamic Network Flows (DynFloR) and another onebased on Reinforcement Learning (DronemRL). A further original contribution con-sists in creating and designing the application showcased in the last chapter, as tothe best of my knowledge there exists no application for creating, training and test-ing MRP environments publicly available.This work is the result of my own activity.   I have neither given nor receivedunauthorized assistance on this work.
